Welcome back.
And in this lesson we're going to set up some more variables and values.
So we do need to hold some more information within our game.
So we need to hold our tile images.
So we need to create an array that contains all of our tile images.
And this is going to be our initial array also create another array that has the tile array.
So this is going to be all of our tiles that are our current tiles.
And we can actually shorten this as well so we can them separate them out and declare a whole bunch
of these within this one statement and the other one we need to track which tiles are flipped over.
So are doing another array.
And this is the one that's actually going to hold all of the tiles that are flipped over so that we
can have several different arrays that we can do some comparisons with.
So first thing that we need to do.
So let's go back here and the first thing that we need to do is highlight that's the start button.
So in Everetts gets clicked then what I want to do is hide it so I don't want that on the screen anymore.
So go ahead.
Pause the video and hide that start button.
Using what we learned within the dorm and stiles and I'll show you how to do that.
Coming up so let's go ahead and hide that start button.
So we've got it within the espie object.
So once we click it then next step is to apply our style to it and the style that we're going to apply
is display.
And we're going to set this value to display.
None.
So basically that's going to hide the button when it gets clicks.
So let's refresh it.
Click the button and we're ready to go.
So next step is to build out our race.
So for this let's create a function to do this and we'll create a function called Build array and then
hear what we want to do is we want to loop through and create an array of images.
So this is where if you had a bunch of images to use you can load them all in here according to their
values.
But what I can do is I'm going to create these dynamically using placeholder dot com that we saw earlier.
So starting at a value of 1 we're doing X while X is less than 7 and we're incrementing x.
So basically we're going to do tile images and this is that brand new array that we're going to build
out and we're going to push into there with the value of x and let's add in.
So we're going to simulate that.
These are images
so there we are.
So that's our first step.
And then that's done.
So we've got some images within tyle images and we're ready to go.
So all we need to do do is replace update this here and we're building out our image array.
So the next thing that we need to do is shuffle
our tile array.
So with the memory game we actually have a set of images but we have two of each image.
So in order to do that we still need to do that when we're building out this array.
So we know with tile images we're actually able to duplicate this and we saw a method earlier we're
looking at arrays.
So what I want you to do is pause the video and duplicate tile images into itself.
So basically for each one of these X concatenated with Jay Peggs we're going to have 12 tiles and they're
all going from one to seven values and then having those as the values and we're going to simply duplicate
those out.
So I paused the video and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So a solution for this is that let's create.
So we've got our tile images and this time we're going to use tile array.
And what we're going to do is that newly created array of images.
So this could also be a preset set of images.
So if you had a bunch of images that you want to use within this project you could skip this building
of the race step and you could just simply have that array with six images in there.
And then this way we can concatenate tile images and we're going to use the concat method within arrays
and basically concatenate it to itself.
So at the end of the day we end up with tile array containing two sets pairs of images from the tile
images.
And this is one where we just built it there.
So the next step is to shuffle our array.
And we've done this before several times.
So I'm going to run through this fairly quickly and this is the same function that we've used before
where we take in an array.
So we call it shuffle array so we can take in the array value.
And I and I did mention earlier that this is a very useful function to have and we've used that several
times.
So this is a great way to shuffle array values.
So first thing that we need to do is loop our array and we're going to loop that.
So we're actually setting up as our default value isn't going to be zero.
It's going to be the length of the array minus one because we arrays started in 0 and we're going to
loop while x is greater than zero.
So this is going to be backwards loop.
We're going to loop down instead of looping up which we normally do.
And then at the end once we've reorganized that array and we've shuffled it we're simply going to return
back that array value.
So let's do that over here.
And we know that in order to do that all we need to do is shuffle.
And we can shuffle that erase we call out to this function and we can pass in that tile array.
So is this going to do is this is going to shuffle around all of those array values.
So let's
go through this loop here now and create our random values and do the swap that we did before.
So I want you to pause the video and create the next part of this function on your own and I'll show
you the solution coming up.
So if you had an opportunity to try that out so you know that first of all we need a way to hold some
values.
So to use a value called holder and just a variable and within here.
So this is where our mouth random is going to sit.
And then we know we need to multiply the value of random times whatever X is plus 1.
So this is going to give us our Random index value for our current array decks and we want to do it
we want to set up an item value.
So basically we want to take whatever the item is within the array index of x.
So this is where we're currently are starting at the top and going down.
We're going to take that value of the item.
Next thing that we need to do is we need to overwrite that value.
So we've taken that value we've put it into this to hold onto it and the next step is that we're going
to grab that and we're going to get that random index value from Holder and we're going to replace it
with a random item in the array.
And then the next step is to do the complete swap where we're taking that random item that we've replaced
every x x x with and we're replacing it back with the value that we were holding from our original point.
So basically what we've done is a swap and then that's it.
So we've got our shuffle array.
So we've got our ability to shuffle out our array.
So then next step is to build our gameboard and this is where we're actually going to output some content
visually for the users to be able to see.
So first of all let's go back and just make sure that everything is working properly and then we're
not throwing any errors.
So everything looks like it's running properly and just to make sure open up your console because we've
got all of these values are sitting here and do the tile array.
So there we go.
So we see that we've got all we've got 12 items in there and they're within a random order is exactly
what we want.
And now we're ready.
So you've basically built out the positioning of each one of those items and the next step is to simply
output them within the game board and the game board is the main play area.
So it's build data now so let's call this one build board.
It don't need to pass the parameters in here either.
So we're going to be building out HVM else.
Let's start out with blank.
H t m l.
And let's loop through.
So we'll start out with a variable of X equals zero.
And let's let's do the shortcut for arrays.
Where are we going to loop through the tile array.
So let's do Tyler.
And for each method.
And this is going to pick up.
Each one of the items within the array and give it a value of L within the function.
And then within this function then we could do building out r h t m l as we need to.
So next step is to increment X so increment X by 1 and then we're going to add 2 h t m l and build out
our gameboard And then lastly after we've done it we've already hooked up gameboard to our object called
gameboard.
So it's do gameport.
And in our h t m l
and we're going to add that H to meld into it.
So the next step is to just simply build out gameboard.
So first let's create our div and I'm going to give it a class so that we can apply some styling to
it give it a class of game tile and we'll just close that off and we'll just add another row here.
So h him out equals h to M L and this is where we actually set our image.
So we give the image an I.D. and we're going to make these IDs unique by adding in the value of x to
them.
So be cards X.
And we know that as we're looping through X it's incrementing and they're all going to have different
values so they are going to be unique.
And let's close off that Id I.D. And next let's do a source
and the source is going to be we're going to use that placeholder that we had used before where it used
the placeholder dot com images from there.
So I'm going to simply use the same thing.
And then within here I'm going to add an On Click event.
So what I want to do is I want to fire off a function called pick card every time it's clicked and I'm
going to pass in some parameters here on the default and I'm also going to pass through the value of
this so we can only use the event object as well.
So keeping that in mind.
So let's pass this.
And let's close off that string.
So sometimes this does get a little bit tricky.
So because I am using the single quotes and the double quotes so sometimes that does get a little bit
tricky.
So I'm just trying to be mindful of that.
So class and let's call this flip image.
So another thing that we add another class so that we can apply some styling to it.
And then last but not least let's finish off and close off that div.
Let's go back up to our C Ss.
So set some styling for the game tile.
And we should also set some styling for the Flip image slots.
Some styling for that.
And let's give it a with.
So basically this is how wide the cards are going to be where the images are going to be.
So now next step is to try to save it.
So let's go back to our game board and refresh.
Hit start.
So there we go.
So we built out our game board when we go ahead and we hit start.
So basically we're building out that gameboard and we also need to include the billboard within the
list of functions under start.
So once we add that in we hit start and we can see that we're building our game board.
So essentially we've built that and this is the back of each one of the tiles.
So let's actually make tiles a little bit smaller.
So they're not so big.
And also what I want to do is maybe add in some padding around it.
So around each one we'll do three pics of padding.
Let's try that again and refresh
it let's move that padding up to the game tile and I'm going to update this to the max with.
So let's go back refreshed and see what happens.
So there we got more distinct tiles.
And I think I got the class they're wrong so let's update that.
So given that flip image so let's update the class and set the max with that 50.
Let's do a flip image go back and refresh it.
And now we hit start.
So now it's a little bit small so maybe let's do it a little bit bigger
and try it again.
So there we go.
So now we've got essentially our gameboard and we could probably do it a little bit bigger as well.
So setting these defaults.
So there we go.
So now we've got a four by three gameboard all ready to go.
So the next lesson we're going to continue to build out this project and going to had to make these
clickable and show you how you can get them to flip and also show us show you how we can fire off that
pick card function that we set off over here.
So let's give you the next step to create the gameplay and the action within the game.